# awesome-carto-tips
# MAPPABLE CHEAT-SHEET  An (incomplete) checklist for making geodata visualizations in (data-driven) journalism.  **ALWAYS ASK YOURSELF FIRST:**  **Is a map really the best way to visualize the data set?**  **DATA HANDLING**  - ❏❏Got all geographic elements right? (especially borders &amp;amp; place names) - ❏❏Check the correct position of geocoded and self drawn map elements (thus preventing mistakes from misused spatial reference systems) - ❏❏Have all outliers and duplicates been eliminated? Correctly dealt with incomplete data entries? - ❏❏Have data entries that are not necessary for the final visualization been removed? - ❏❏Have the values been normalized (e.g. by population data)?  **CARTOGRAPHIC REPRESENTATION**  - ❏❏Has a suitable spatial reference system been chosen? (consider rotation, distortion, equal area)  - ❏❏Is the level of given context information (reference points, place names, borders) well balanced? - ❏❏Is it really necessary to use a basemap or can users already orient themselves by the mapped data points? - ❏❏Is there too much useless white space on the map? If yes, how about several smaller maps?  **VISUAL IMPLEMENTATION**  - ❏❏Do readers instantly understand the key message of the visualization? - ❏❏Is the visualization readable for someone who suffers from color blindness? - ❏❏Choose meaningful categorial boundaries that lead to well perceivable categories - ❏❏If mapping locations: pick symbols than are more meaningful than pins (or use dots instead) - ❏❏Color scales   - ❏❏Rainbow colors and red-green color schemes usually should not be the first choice. [http://colorbrewer2.org/](http://colorbrewer2.org/) is your friend!   - ❏❏Be careful with manipulating color schemes when working with continuous data. You might damage the logic of equidistant colors.   - ❏❏When working with qualitative color schemes: do all colors appear equally important or are there unintended highlights?   - ❏❏Be aware of biased colors (e.g. red and green) and what meaning is usually assigned to them   - ❏❏Choose a suitable middle point when working with diverging color schemes  **LEGEND AND ATTRIBUTION**  - ❏❏Include copyright and attribution for all external data sources (incl. geodata and open data!) - ❏❏Does the reader need a legend to understand the visualization? If yes, is your legend complete? - ❏❏If you use transparent map elements, pay attention on displaying them correctly in the map legend. - ❏❏If desired: how about publishing your raw data?  **INTERACTIVITY**  - ❏❏Is it easily understandable how interactive elements work?  - ❏❏Would a static map be equally suitable? Does interactivity really lead to a surplus that&amp;#39;s worth the external dependencies that come along with interactivity? - ❏❏Is your map limited to meaningful extends and zoom levels? - ❏❏How does your visualization work with your content management systems? - ❏❏Is everything working fine in most common browsers and on mobile devices (at least in iOS + Android)? - ❏❏If desired: how about embedding options?
